# Description

This project is created to simplify the intercommunication of the rocket hardware and the groundstation. This project uses a xml format called xcm (derived from the xtce format used by ESA) to describe the data that is transmitted over the RF link to and from the rocket hardware.
This project can generate C code from the xcm document to send and receive data over the RF link. This c code can than be used in the µC software for the rocket hardware and ensures that the c structures are always synchronized with the xcm document that describes those messages.

In addition to that this project also contains code to receive those messages over an udp link and parse them to json code for further processing. This parser also contains the methods to transform the raw data messages sent by the hardware to easy to read json values that can be used in guis without further processing or having to know the implementation details of the RF link or messages that are transmitted over this link.

# Projects

## libxcm

This library performs the task to read and parse the xcm document. It contains the classes that represent the xcm structure as well as an tokenizer to create a C# class structure that represents the xcm document

|               |               |
| ------------- |:-------------:|
| Language      | C#            |
| IDE           | Visual Studio |

## libxcmparse

This library contains the code to parse incomming messages in the context of the xcm document. It uses the class structure of libxcm and extends it to handle and parse messages.

|               |               |
| ------------- |:-------------:|
| Language      | C#            |
| IDE           | Visual Studio |

## xcmparser

This program allows to parse messages and converting them into a valid json representation. It uses the classes from libxcmparse and feeds them with data over an udp link. It then generates the json and writes it to the cli.

|               |               |
| ------------- |:-------------:|
| Language      | C#            |
| IDE           | Visual Studio |

### Commandline Options

Currently not available so all ports and adresses are hardcoded in the source code.

## xcodegen

This program generates the C code from the xcm document. It uses the class structure of libxcm and convert it into C structures and interface code to send those messages over a datalink.

|               |               |
| ------------- |:-------------:|
| Language      | C#            |
| IDE           | Visual Studio |

### Commandline Options

`dotnet xcodegen.dll [switches] {Path to xcm file} {filename for the generated c code}`

| Switch        |  Funciton                                                 | Optional |
| ------------- |:---------------------------------------------------------:|:--------:|
|-h             | show help                                                 | Yes      |
| --ctemplate   | The c template file to use                                | No       |
| --htemplate   | The c header template file to use                         | No       |
|  --outputpath | The path to the folder where the code should be generated | No       |

A simple sample commmand would be
`dotnet xcodegen.dll --ctemplate=template.c --htemplate=template.h --outputpath=output TestXCM.xml communication`

This uses the c template template.c, the header template template.h and the TestXCM.xml file to generate two C files with the names communication.c and communication.h under the folder output. If the outputfolder doesn't exists it is created. If C files with the names communication.c or communication.h exists in the output directory they are overwritten.

## CodeGenerationTest

This program sends messages over a udp link to the loopback address. This messages can be used to test the interopability of the C code generated by xcodegen and the xcmparser. The project is configured to generate the latest interface code with xcodegen before every build.

|               |               |
| ------------- |:-------------:|
| Language      | C             |
| IDE           | CodeBlocks    |

### Commandline Options

Currently not available so all ports and adresses are hardcoded in the source code.